# The Very Detailed Review of the *Plumbing the Death Star* Podcast Series
#### By: Jill Marney

## What is *Plumbing the Death Star*
Movie Maintenance is a segment on Sanspants Radio that focuses on in-depth yet light-hearted analysis of different fictional universes and aspects of pop culture. Sanspants Radio has other programs like *Movie Maintenance* and *Shut Up a Second,* all of which mimic the casual tone and open discussion of *Plumbing the Death Star,* despite the topics varying from movies to soft things to Cher. Their website truly captures the atmosphere the show creates:
> In which we ask the important questions in pop culture and dissect fictional universes. Because seriously, who deals with super weapon sanitation and imperial employee agreements? If you’re looking for serious discussions, this isn't the podcast you're looking for and we are so sorry about that joke.

When looking for a podcast to review, I looked for topics that I'm interested in first and foremost. I'm a huge fiction nut; be it novels, television shows, or movies, I love elaborate, grand stories that take place in worlds just as elaborate and grand. But I also derive an embarassing amount of pleasure from analyzing the works I've read/watched. As a fictional writer myself, I like studying the universes of other creators and seeing what works and what doesn't in order to better my own story-telling. So once I narrowed my search to this degree, it wasn't hard getting sucked into both the good-natured humor and the compelling discussions of this podcast.
## Per Episode Analysis
In order to get a good grasp of the show, I listened to four episodes, ranging from their early days to their most recent material. The main hosts of the show are Joel Duscher, Joel L. Zammit, Jackson B. Baly, and a fourth person with the alias *Studio Horse,* with occasional guests for the discussions. Each episode averages 30 to 40 minutes, with the structure pretty loose but still consistent and cohesive.
### *How is Everyone Okay with the Truman Show?*
The segment starts off with some banter between the hosts before establishing the topic of discussion and a quick summary of the story and the universe it takes place in. For this particular episode, the hosts discuss how the viewers in the Truman Show's universe were comfortable watching a brainwashed man living a fake life controlled by a television network.

### *The Ethical Dilemmas of Azkaban*
Just like the episode prior, the segment starts with some banter and then a quick summary of Harry Potter and the role of Azkaban in the books. The hosts touch on an array of topics, from the role of the dementors, to the absence of truth serums in trials, to the question of lifelong torture over the death penalty. The hosts are very charming and fun to listen to, and they bring up some interesting points. It's hard to listen to 38 minutes of straight ad-lib discussion though.

### *How Would You Survive the Game of Thrones?*
It's worth mentioning now that each episode starts with the topic's theme or soundtrack. Since this episode is Game of Thrones, they used the intro theme to kick off the episode. Banter, summary of show, etc. thus follows. This episode is more of a conglomeration of a bunch of different topics related to Game of Thrones, not just the titular question. They take turns outlining absurd ways they would survive Westeros, like become a dragon or something crazy. I'm a little disappointed; I was looking for some solid advice.

## General Analysis
### Speakers and Interviews
The episodes in *Plumbing the Death Star* will primarily have the main hosts as the speakers in the discussion, with the occasional guest participant. From what I've listened to, they don't seem to have any interviews, or deviate from the discussion formula. Regardless, the main hosts are very engaging and well-spoken; even when they talk over one another, they always make sure to re-articulate the point that had been made. They are very gracious to their guests, and their inclusion does nothing to halt the flow of conversation.  
### Script and Structure
The structure of *Plumbing the Death Star* is remarkably loose. If there is a script at all, it wouldn't be more than a list of bullet points to hit during the discussion. This can be both a blessing and a curse; a script would guarantee that all topics could be discussed thoroughly, and would prevent any lulls or deviations from the focus. However, the absence of a script creates a vary organic and casual setting, which really drives home the point of this podcast: discussing for the sake of discussing and nothing else. The hosts make it clear that these podcasts are just their opinions, so it makes sense for them to let free thought be their guide at the table. And while not having a script puts a lot of pressure on the speakers to be quick on their feet and interesting, these hosts do an excellent job keeping the discussion relatively cohesive, despite their occasional tangents.
### Music and Sounds
Each episode begins with a short sound bite of music, which relates to work being discussed. This would be a recognizable theme of the film/television show or a piece of the soundtrack. But besides this opener, there really isn't any other use of music or sounds throughout each episode. Of course, this is a result of no discernible script, and therefore no ability to plan production details, but I can't say that I'm a fan of this approach. Because their episodes are relatively long, it's important to keep the attention of the listener. This can't be accomplished if they don't maximize the medium they're producing content in. 
## Opinions
If I were to do a podcast, it would be in the same vein as *Plumbing the Death Star.* I love the topics discussed in the show, and the hosts are very likable and engaging. However, there are a couple things I would change to define my podcast. And that ultimately comes in asking what's the purpose of the podcast. Their two-pronged approach (ad-lib humor and analytical discussion) is hard to maintain for 30-40 minutes. If it were shorter, I would see no quarrel with freestyling their discussion. But the novelty of unscripted discussion wears off over time, especially if they keep losing focus and talking over one another. With that in mind, it's important to define the purpose: is this podcast for entertainment, or legitimate analysis? If more the former, then they have to maximize their medium. They could incorporate sounds and music, and write out a relatively loose script that can still leave room for ad-lib. If more the latter, then there would have to be more structure to the podcast, focusing more on analysis than discussion. *Plumbing the Death Star* would probably prefer the former, but my dream podcast would be something along the lines of the latter: in-depth analysis of literary works in any medium.